9 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here
in Hong Kong, you're watching the China
Show. I'm Ivon Man with David and Glass.
>> We're counting down to the open of
markets in greater China this Monday.
Let's get to your top stories today.
Stocks across the Asia-Pacific are
edging up. A lot of that is to do with
the rally in Korea. Uh oil trimming its
gains here. The dollar falling as
markets try to stabilize after US
strikes on a key Iranian export hub.
President Trump demanding help from
other countries, including China, to
secure the street of Hormuz as the world
grapples with energy supply disruptions.
>> The president also says he could delay a
planned summit with Chinese President Xi
Jinping if Beijing does not help unblock
the street.
>> And South Korea is bracing for an oil
shock by using extra tax revenue to help
households and businesses. Our exclusive
interview with the finance minister
coming up.
Yep. We are entering a third week of
this Iran conflict and it doesn't seem
like there is any end in sight here
right now. Um, we were I thought we were
going to kick off the show talking about
this US attack on this Iranian export
hub and that was probably going to royal
markets. But I think the last few hours
there has been somewhat of a chorus of
what President Trump has wanted urging
NATO, urging the likes of China to help
in terms of the reopening of the
straight up horm. But there is also
implications for China, right? We're not
sure right now whether this this trade
talks uh with President Xi are going to
happen or not.
>> Yeah. Because on Sunday there was a
meeting of course top officials in
Paris, right? And by most indications at
that point we were those two stories
were still largely divorced from each
other. But now of course we now know
that those two things are not separate
and that one could affect the other. Um
so markets are trying to figure out so
we're stable right now as far as markets
go. Uh we're trying to figure out though
whether the premium built in last week
was enough that there is somewhat
visibility on worst case on oil and not
so much worst case as pertains to the
war because there is no offramp still
visible there. Um but when you look at
the oil price right now, it does seem
that uh much is in the price. You know,
we opened one above 104. We're at 102
right now here.
>> Yeah. So things are at least we're
reversing a little bit here of some of
the concerns around supply disruptions
and the like. There was this fear that
things will be more widespread in terms
of the the you know damage to
infrastructure and the like. So I think
for markets I mean hopefully it's a time
for us to look beyond that in some ways.
We still have some big big central bank
decisions this week to talk about as
well.
>> Yeah. Unless they tell us to look back
at the Iran story, the central banks,
right? And then that that's really going
to come to fruition. We have some data
coming through as well out of China
today that really goes into the economic
story we're talking about here. We
talked about oil. We opened above 104.
We're below 103 at the moment within the
commodities complex. It's now aluminum
that's in focus to given the sort of
second degree implications as it
pertains to that specific part of the
energy market of the commodities market.
We're up 1% in London. We're looking at
a contract as well uh when things come
fully online in Shanghai. Right. The FX
and rate story is one where on Friday
the dollar hit the highest level of the
year. We're giving up giving back some
of that strength. Uh yes, we are close
to 160. That's the level we're talking
about here as a pertaining to the dollar
yen. Uh Euro dollar in focus. So we have
a flurry of central bank decisions this
week. Uh equity markets, you have the
nickep Taiwan coming online. US futures
on your screens and a lot of that of
course has to do with the Cosby and the
rally there. Taiwan is also opening up
1% and just a glance at futures going
into the open today. A50 futures and you
have Shanghai oil and Shanghai aluminum
uh 1 4.7% to the upside and it's looking
like we are set for gains here in
greater China at least for today.
>> Yep. In terms of your agenda here today,
as we mentioned, it is about the state
of these USChina trade talks as well
with the FT saying, "Look, President
Trump says he could delay it if China
does not help out when it comes to
reopening the straightup war moves."
That activity data, we got a big data
dump coming through at the top of the
hour as well. Home prices come through
the bottom of this hour, so look out for
that first in terms of what we could get
in terms of data. Uh we're watching
everything from aluminum, right? And
really zinc. So, you know, we we talked
when we went beyond the whole oil
discussion, gas, last week was about
helium. This week might be more about
zinc. Uh just given some of the supply
disruptions that even China is facing
when it comes to getting access to some
of these zinc concentrates from the
Middle East as well. Uh the 200 day
moving average and the HSI certainly is
one thing to watch there. And of course,
we got some earnings coming through here
today.
>> Yeah. uh leap motor uh CSPC which is a
farm up play of course oil fields uh
which is of course one of the units
there the bigger one uh listed onure
lots to watch there today um but yeah
let's get the latest here President
Trump when talk about latest in the last
few hours or so President Trump here is
demanding that other countries
contribute to the defense of the
straight of hormuz which remains
effectively shut to oil tankers we heard
from him earlier saying that China
should play a more active role in the
region
they should come in. In my opinion, it
never made sense for years. If you go
back and look at what I've said years
ago, I said, "Why are we maintaining the
hormonal restraint when it's really
there for China and many other
countries?"
>> Meanwhile, the FT is reporting that he
could delay his much anticipated summit
with Chinese President Xi Jinping if
Beijing doesn't help unblock the strait.
Let's bring in our team now. our
Bloomberg managing editor Jill Dus and
our China correspondent Mimllo uh with
the latest. Jill, I'll start with you.
Um you know, of course, we were supposed
to talk about this big Iraq uh you know,
attack on Car Island. But now it seems
like you're getting more of this urgency
from President Trump to get other
nations involved in reopening the
straight of Hormuz. How high of a hurdle
would that be?
>> I mean, at this point, Yvon, it's really
difficult to tell just but you can you
can see just from um you know, some of
these comments from Trump that um you
know, he's he's using the words
demanding. He's demanding that countries
kind of get involved with um sort of
protecting the straight of Hermuz and
then obviously um some of those broader
conversations about coalition building.
I mean this is a really really tough
task that Trump has in front of him and
I think you know what you're seeing here
is that all signs kind of point to him
being the one that ultimately has the
power to kind of end this war. Um but
it's it's kind of unclear what exactly
he really wants from this, right? I mean
you've have some shifting uh you know
conflicting messaging from the Trump
administration about what exactly it is
that um you know they're they're
ultimately looking to achieve here. Um
certainly um you know the end of any
kind of nuclear weapons program in Iran
is a key consideration here. But uh he
also said in those comments on um Air
Force One, there were some other things
that they were looking at, but he didn't
exactly make clear what it was he was
talking about. Um you know, there's some
ideas floating around about the
possibility for regime change, but of
course we saw what happened with the um
old Supreme uh leader being replaced by
his son, who if anything is um you know,
more aggressive on some of these
tactics. So, um, if you're some of these
other nations that's listening to these
Trump comments on, um, protecting the
the straight of Hermuz and securing
passage for those ships for some kind of
a coalition building, um, you might want
a little bit more out of Donald Trump
himself on what exactly that clear path
forward out of the war looks like before
you really get on board.
>> Mman, I I'll bring you in. Uh, what's
happening in the Middle East will seems
to now be affecting whether or not we'll
be having the summit uh, between the
two. What do we know about that? Well,
on the poly market, the bets are less
than 50%. That Trump is going to arrive
uh by end of March. But yes, there's
been a lot of speculation when the Iran
war first broke out whether that summit
will be derailed. And this is the first
time we're hearing from President Trump
that he might delay the summit. And the
precondition here is that China
contributes to keeping the street of
Kamuz open and send warships to that
area. But if you just read the state
linked media reports so far, China views
the root cause of the conflict as the US
and uh Israel attacks on Iran and they
view this move by President Trump
essentially as dragging other countries
in a war that it started. And so far,
China's stance on Iran has been no more
than rhetorical support, right? And it's
very unlikely, at least in the past,
China has been quite uh unwilling to put
boots on the ground and put military
backing in a conflict that is far away
from home. So it's not clear how willing
they are to really a seed to President
Trump's request. But you know, two weeks
is a long time and maybe there could be
some sort of face saving gesture in the
leadup to the summit and potentially it
could still happen. It's really hard to
say at this point.
>> Do you see China playing any role in
this whole Ron situation? Well, I think
the one thing that you have to keep in
mind when it comes to China too is that
um you know, what kind of leverage do
they have in any kind of negotiations
here, right? I mean, um, you can make
the argument that after, uh, you know,
Trump's tariff regime, uh, was
essentially struck on by the Supreme
Court of the United States, um, that
he's now pursuing some other options to
kind of get, um, tariffs in place that
China, um, which did kind of emerge as
like a pretty significant victor and
everything last year um, when all that
chaos was flying around, might have um,
you know, a bit more leverage when it
comes to actually getting um, you know,
Trump to, um, you know, to the table to
talk about what they want to. So, I do
think that that's part of this, but I
think, you know, um you know, as Minman
said, um you know, there's a lot here
that China might not necessarily want to
get involved with or that isn't
necessarily in their best interest. So,
you do have these pretty strong comments
from Trump, but you know, how powerful
of leverage is it actually for Trump to
say, you know, maybe I just won't go to
Beijing. So, I think that that's a
pretty significant question here.
>> Assuming the summit is still taking
place, we had talks in Paris, high level
talks. What do we get out of that?
>> Yeah, so the first day is over. There
was on Sunday six hours of talks but
neither side spoke to the media on the
way in and out of the venue. Today
they're going to continue the talks
again. Uh but so far Reuters has
reported based on sources that the talks
were candid and constructive and it
seems like China is showing some signs
of goodwill saying that they are open to
buying more agricultural products beyond
soybeans including things like poultry,
beef, non- soybean row crops for example
and they are still pledging to fulfill
their commitment on that 25 million tons
of soybeans per year over the next 3
years. We understand from the Reuters
report that the US is also pressing
China to buy more US oil and uh natural
gas as well. So the US clearly also
emerging a winner in this Iran conflict
given they are the largest exporter of
LNG globally. Um there's also the Boeing
date deal on the table and according to
Reuters both sides are looking at uh
coming up with technical talks a
so-called board of investments and board
of trade and these two mechanisms will
be uh talks that allow them to identify
sectors and products where they can
increase trade to balance that trade
relationship. The board of investment
would deal with discretionary investment
issues and we know that China so far has
been very keen to put money in the US
but they have faced a lot of scrutiny
from CPHAS. they face a lot of
restrictions. Um so we'll see if this
actually opens up space for both sides
to mutually invest in each other's
countries.
>> All right, Mim, thank you. Our China
correspondent Mim Lo there and our
managing editor Jill Da is joining us
here on set. And as the war drags on, we
got to talk a little bit more about what
this means for the world of equities. JP
Morgan's Asia equity and quant
strategist Modas joins us to assess
these volatile markets positioning, what
to do next here. And you know, they
talking about this wall of liquidity for
EM equities. he started to see traction
around that sort of theme.
>> Yeah. Um and I think they're overweight
materials and to what extent has that
trade already run its course and what
are the sort of how does that trade
expand in terms of the tactical
opportunities that have arisen given
events in the Middle East more with Mixo
in a moment of course. Uh coming down to
the open trade we're called higher
across futures. We have a lot of data
coming through plus some earnings in
greater China 410 to 1% opening bell 18
minutes away. This is the China show.
Welcome back. Uh the question energy
well global markets let me widen the the
the viewpoint there across markets is
what exactly are we seeing in terms of
tanker traffic on a straight up right?
You put together everything and that's a
map of course that's Car of course which
was a weekend uh subject to a barrage of
military action from the US upward of
course into the Persian Gulf there's a
straight this is the Oman Gulf and this
is data from the last 30 days mind you
so if you do see some vessels there that
effectively says that they were there
doesn't mean they're there right now but
you do see of course this tracker
traffic that's just parked um and not
being able to pass through a lot of
reports out on the weekend right you
know if you have any linkages to China
or Russia that gives you free passage.
Other reports suggests that everybody
but American and Israeli linked tankers
can get free passage. But here's what
the data is telling us. And you we have,
you know, real-time data here in the
Bloomberg to tell you that. Let's flip
the page, please. Okay. So, what we have
is birectional east to west, west to
east, 24-hour rolling data every 30
minutes. And what the data shows is
there has been effectively no not a
single well maybe one or two one or two
but effectively near zero in as far as
the vessel count on a straightforward
moose in the last 30 minutes or so. In
fact the last 24 hours shows you give or
take about two maybe three but it just
goes to show that the choke point
remains choked. Ivon.
>> Yeah. And as as the IIA said last week,
right, in terms of supply disruptions,
this is the worst that they've seen in
global oil markets ever. Um, and we
continue to track of course the damage
and the like. Let's bring in our oil and
shipping reporter Wayan Sun. He joins us
from Singapore. Uh, Wayan, obviously
there's there's comments from what we
heard from President Trump this morning
about, you know, possibly demand, you
know, demanding countries to help reopen
the street of Hormuz. There also was
that attack of that Iranian export hub.
I'm just wondering what is your team
really tracking the most here this
morning?
I think as of now we still don't see any
traffic going through the street of
hormos and definitely Trump is feeling
the pressure on that. Um he's seen how
the closure of the street of hormos is
has impacted oil prices and and
therefore that's why he's suggesting
that countries send in some naval
escorts uh through the straight to
ensure safe passage. But how that can
happen um in reality really remains to
be seen. No one wants to send in uh very
highly priced naval assets uh to open
them to like possible uh attacks, right?
Um so as you you've mentioned um tanker
traffic through the shadow of hormones
has basically fallen to zero. Uh but
there are a few important caveats over
here. Um firstly some of those those
ships uh might have gone through uh dark
that means they turn off the transponder
signals uh to protect themselves or they
may be um part of the dark fleet that
the Iran uh Iranian fleet uses uh to
export oil out of the straight of Homos
and also the other big thing is that
there's uh severe signal jamming um
across the Persian Gulf. Um this is not
just uh because Iran is trying to
perhaps uh affect ships uh safety of
passage but also other countries um do
engage in signal jamming uh to protect
themselves during times of warfare.
>> That's an important caveat there. Um in
fact anecdotal you know some of our
colleagues I know some people of course
in that part of the world when you run
your location on Google maps you are
nowhere near where you actually are
which is a good point to uh to really
make way what do we know now give us an
update on any major damage to oil
infrastructure over the weekend. Do we
see any developments as far as that
specific front is concerned?
>> Exactly. Um I think the biggest one
we've seen so far is Fujira. um that's
in the UAE but it's outside of straight
of commerce. though it sits uh on the
Gulf of Oman and that's a key um oil
export hub for the UAE because um even
though a lot of these oil exporters rely
on the Persian Gulf uh to export oil uh
through which the street of Hormos is a
crucial uh corridor but um since the
closure of the street of Hormos um the
UAE has been able to redirect some of
its crude exports to Fujira to bypass
Hormos and those drone attacks that we
saw um over the weekend that really took
down um the the port itself um
operations were suspended um for about a
day or so. Um it's it's it's a small
drone attack, but it could show what
Iran can do. Um even though um these
port export terminals, this oil export
terminal, sorry, um are sitting outside
our farmers. Um Iran can still affect
some of those exports.
>> And there's been some reports as well
of, you know, a rattling vessel still
being able to to go through. You know
there are also reports that China or
Chinese sort of ships are getting
exemptions as well. What what what more
do we know at this point?
>> I think so far what we can tell frankly
is ships uh do signal that they have
Chinese ownership. Um we've seen bulk
carrier vessels uh exiting street of
horos um signaling Chinese ownership or
manager. Um so it's it's hard to draw a
direct correlation between that and a
tit um agreement between Dhran and and
Beijing uh to allow Chinese ships to
safely go through. But safe to say that
um many ships and ship owners are
recognizing the fact that um signaling
that you have uh uh no relation to the
US or maybe Israel um will perhaps give
you some form of safe passage uh through
the street. Uh but what we do know for
sure that is that India um has managed
to get some shifts through the street of
Hammus as we've reported over the the
past week. Yeah,
>> Willan, thank you Willson there in
Singapore for us getting us updated and
really the important context as far as
the oil tanker traffic is is concerned.
More updates of course coming through
from our oil team in a moment. Uh right.
Um more on the story right so South
Korea massive energy importer the market
apart from today of course has taken
quite a bit of a hit there. Uh well the
country will be using extra tax revenue
to then fund this supplementary budget
in a bit here to cushion really the
homes businesses from rising energy
prices triggered by what's taking place
in the uh in the Middle East. Uh its
finance minister Kuyun Chol spoke with
us exclusively on Friday.
Right now, the Middle East situation is
overshadowing the global economy. The
government's top priority right now is
responding to the Middle East situation
in the short term while reducing Korea's
structural dependence on oil over the
medium to long term,
>> which is why you just announced a fuel
price cap. Why this specific measure
instead of others more potentially
broadly or more targeted measures to
support the economy?
>> Currently, the imported oil is from
before the Middle East conflict. During
this twoe period when imports have been
halted, it will come in at a higher
price. However, if the future imports
become even more expensive, the
government plans to raise the price
proposal accordingly to compensate. The
government plans to decide at that time
whether to reduce taxes again.
If you actually need to help the
refiners, does that mean that the
government will be using its own budget
in order to do that? And how are you
planning to pay for that cost?
>> Therefore, if refiners incur losses
during this process, the government
intends to compensate for those losses.
And that was South Korean Finance
Minister Kuan Chill there speaking
exclusively to Bloomberg. Going to have
much more from that conversation later
on this hour.
>> Right. Uh just going into the open
today. 8 minutes to the opening bell. A
preview a full preview of the day ahead
is coming up next. This is the China
show.
All right, we're also watching, of
course, this data dump that's coming
through the top of the hour. When it
comes to industrial production, we're
expecting a print of about what 5.3% uh
but still negative when it comes to
fixed asset investments. the retail
sales side um you know a 2 and a half%
print which is already a little bit of a
improvement from the previous but still
not quite good. So uh certainly we'll
see what that means. I mean we have home
prices coming through as well and we're
expecting an ex you know maybe another
34th straight month of contraction when
it comes to home prices.
>> Yeah. uh the momentum there seems to I
mean there was a period of time um last
year when it seemed that the momentum
was shifting but uh going into 2026
things have obviously pulled uh pulled
back to the downside here. Uh it's worth
pointing out to when you look at the
data. So two things right. So PMI did
signal contraction and this is Jan and
Feb numbers coming through just to uh
sort of even out seasonal aberrations
between of course where you have that uh
the the long holiday that time of the
year right. Um couple of other things
going into the open today. It's worth
pointing out that the CSI 300 was
actually up slightly last week. Right.
It just tells you about the I guess
relative resiliency of the specific
market but still of course broadly
speaking still down though for uh the
last few weeks or so. Hanging index
closed below the 200 day moving average
on Friday. Pre-market suggests not a lot
of movement going into the session
today. Maybe early outperformers in the
form of some tech plays. We'll get to
that in a moment. Um yeah in terms of
the agenda today just to recap some of
these things we talked about the talks
activity numbers and home prices.
Aluminum should be coming up on your
screens and also zinc. So that's now the
uh this expanded uh hit to the commodity
complex.
>> Yeah. Aluminum because in particular it
came to that Bahrain smelter that has a
phased production shutdown and this is
one of the world's largest single sight
smelters of the metals. So Chinese
aluminum stocks are very much in focus.
You mentioned zinc as well just given uh
you know Chinese uh you refiners and
what their access to zinc right now is
also quite uncertain here. 200 day
moving average as we talked about.
Stocks to watch certainly is the
aluminum side of things. You are seeing
the likes of Hongchao, Chalco are
slightly up here this morning. Oil
stocks could be going all over the place
just given that we saw the price of
crude basically we were at 106 at one
point a few hours ago. Now we've kind of
settled near the the $100 mark here.
Just given what we've seen with
President Trump and you know this this
push for more coordination or coalition
when it comes to these escorts around
the rate of moves. Uh yes, we're not
seeing a whole lot of movement when it
comes to some of these big oil names. Uh
and Xiaomi, they're coming up with a new
SUV. So, we'll definitely watch that
stock here and the EV space this
morning. The open is next.
Welcome back. Uh you're watching the
China show. Uh we are set uh to open up
in about 40 seconds from now. Mixed bag.
Uh we're also going to get some numbers
coming through here in the form of new
home prices. Well, home prices generally
speaking in a couple of seconds and the
top of the next hour. The activity
numbers are coming through as well.
>> Yeah. And the numbers do suggest that we
might be still been a bit stuck in the
low gear sort of mode for the economy
the first two months or so. Of course,
we talked about these are the January
and Feb numbers here. So, we'll see how
that all plays out here. But certainly,
um, what we're turning more our
attention to is whether this whole
situation Iran is going to impact those
trade talks uh between President Xi and
President Trump in just a few weeks.
That seems to be the next element in
this story. Now, according to what
President Trump said to the FT here this
morning that they could possibly delay
this meeting uh in with China here if in
fact China does not help along with NATO
nations uh in re unblocking the straight
of Wormuse. So uh in terms of what we're
seeing across equities here, you know,
Chinese assets have been seen largely as
that sort of safe haven and we're seeing
it pretty flat here right now when it
comes to onshore. Uh we're watching very
closely of course Shanghai crude. It is
sort of slightly elevated. We're up some
3% but certainly you know we've already
have seen Brent and WTI come off a
little bit from the initial sort of
moves this morning just given what we
heard from President Trump and this
urgency to really kind of uh help out
and and what's going on in that key
vital waterway. Uh we're also watching
things aluminum certainly that has been
elevated given we talked about that
Bahrain uh smelter and really the phased
production cuts there. Zinc as we talked
about is probably the next thing to
watch. So you know when it comes to
these large caps it's it's a mixed
picture. There's not a whole lot of
conviction is needless to say Capricorn
Texas is slightly lower here. We've been
watching of course uh some of these
consumption names given that uh you know
really it there has been a lot of
disappointment from MPC and the like
when it came to the consumption side. uh
take a look at how Hong Kong is fairing
because certainly there's going to be a
lot of focus on tech and we have got
more earnings coming through here coming
soon um and and whether we continue to
see HStech and how you know things were
seen as a little bit of a bright spot
just given what we heard with open claw
last week uh there has been some of
course regulatory scrutiny but then
again the wider adoption of this whole
technology I think has been uh you see
in some of these big internet giants and
the like. So there you go. Uh when it
comes to Xiaomi that could be the big
one here today. They just announced this
launch of their new SUV. The stock is up
uh 1 and a.5%. Uh we are seeing when it
comes to dollar China a bit of weakness
here, but we've stabilized around the
690 level as well. HS Tech is flat
pretty much here. Um not really seeing
too much in terms of movement here.
Dave, we're pretty boring day. Um which
you know is rare I might have jinxed it.
Uh let's take a look at some of these
oil stocks here as well. just given the
fluctuations the whips saw that we're
seeing a little bit across crude markets
here this morning we didn't see a whole
lot uh really in terms of movement
um mixed picture as you could tell uh
Petro China is up China oil service is
up but you know Sopek and the like are
lower aluminum stocks as we talked about
so this could be the one where you start
to see kind of the next phase of these
supply disruptions uh so you are seeing
the likes of Chalco Hongcha are slightly
lower here today uh aluminum futures are
also still uh now we're coming off some
of the highs here, but still that has
been quite elevated of late. We do have
those new home price data coming.
>> We do. We do. And I think things just
not um are notching up a a level or two
right now. So, let me start things off
with so you have two pieces of breaking
news right now. Uh one is you have home
prices coming out and the headline is
we're looking at the slowest pace of
declines, still declines, new home
prices across 70 cities. That's for Feb.
Uh the slowest pace going back to June.
So that's encouraging news as far as the
direction of travel is concerned. The
other piece of news which is perhaps
more pertinent globally is the Dubai has
now announced a temporary suspension of
flights at the international airport.
That goes back now to the to the Iran
story. It's unclear what has triggered
that, but that's what we know so far. Go
ahead, Ivon.
>> Just from what I'm seeing uh at the
early get go. So not sure if this is
related but there's something that's
happening near the international
airport. Yes. So the Dubai civil civil
defense teams have been containing a
fire that was resulted from the impact
to one of its fuel tanks in the vicinity
of the Dubai International Airport. This
was according to the Dubai government's
media office and they wrote this in an
expost just a few moments ago. No
injuries have been reported so far. Uh
it appears to be a drone incident that
caused this fire near the airport and
affected a fuel tank according to the
media office. So that might be impacting
a lot of the traffic that is flying in
and out of course uh Dubai. So for now
it's a temporary suspension of the
airport.
>> Yeah. Oil prices on your screens open
above 104. We're coming off well we dip
back below 103 and as you can see now we
are again inching our way back up on
Brent. Uh gold is below 5,000. Yeah,
there we go. Not acting as a haven.
That's a positioning play. Uh very
quickly, Nicay, Cosby, Taiwan, and US
futures coming on your screens. We're
now down 1% uh on the Nicay today. S&P
futures are the
counterbalance to the upside. Let's get
a sense of what we know and how we can
map out strategy if that is at all
possible at this point. Uh Mix Odas is
here with us on set, Asia equity and
quant strategist at JP Morgan. Good
morning. Very nice to see you, sir.
>> Good morning.
um what scenarios have you mapped out
and what strategies can you attach to
those scenarios? There are so many
permutations possible at this point that
investors are really struggling right uh
on the one hand in the near term this
situation is still ongoing so you should
expect impacts on equities via four
channels right one is that risk aversion
is happening and you can see
positionings being degrossed a little
bit uh although not a lot so far
secondly a variety of commodity prices
that like you guys were talking about
have been going higher and that affects
both uh has winners and losers right
both within sectors and within markets
then you start to think about oh what's
going to be the impact on inflation and
how are central banks going to react to
this and how are bond yields going to
react to this and that's starting to
become a big story uh you know if you
look at market projections for uh policy
moves from across central banks we're
now expecting more and more hikes right
uh and the final thing is like you
mentioned Ivan what's going to happen
about the Trump she meeting which is
very critical to how risk perception is
seen in China equities so on the one
hand near-term you obviously We want to
be sensitive to these developments and
so the trade is to move from semis
semiconductors to semi which is staples
energy materials and industrials.
>> Okay. I was wondering where you're going
with that. Okay.
>> Uh so that's that's the sector trade uh
which a lot of investors have been
looking at. Similarly you can use
options to hedge. JP Morgan has just
gone tactically bullish on the dollar.
So that's another way to look at it. Uh
but longer term the other option is to
just look through these right history
tells us at least in the last 15 years
that geopolitical incidents have always
been good buying opportunities entry
points and for investors scale back into
their existing positions or stuff that
they like. Um we're not quite there yet
but you know you can just choose to look
through this volatility.
>> Is it still the oil price that is really
going to dictate how you position right
now? I mean what does $100 oil mean for
like investor psyches if it's goes on
for weeks and months?
>> Right. So three things to track, right?
First is just the oil price. So if it
stays above $100 for a month, then that
starts to become a bigger economic
challenge.
>> U secondly, uh we're looking at uh
indications that positions have been
wiped out, which like I said, we aren't
seeing that yet. If you look at hedge
funds positioning in our prime book, the
degrossing that we have seen so far is
very minimal. If you look at damage in
the quant portfolios and factor
performances, that's very minimal. uh so
we haven't seen that quite yet. The
third thing is to track like how are
these geopolitical events themselves
evolving right and I think the biggest
focus from investors is on the street of
Homus and how soon that can reopen and
now we have betting markets odds on
these things so you can track that in
real time uh both option markets and
betting markets are suggesting about a
35% probability that the straight of
home was at least partially open by the
end of the month so we're tracking that
very closely
>> the if the war ended tomorrow what is
has let's call it 2 and 1/2 weeks 3
weeks of elevated oil
um above 100 bucks what is has there
been fundamental damage done
>> not yet so like I mentioned I think
either oil prices need to go above 150
or they need to stay at 100 for an
extended period of time for the economic
damage so the economic damage comes one
v positioning and then equity markets uh
go down bond markets perhaps sell off
and you have a tightening in financial
conditions so that leads to some damage.
Secondly, uh via central banks and how
the policy direction is changing and
that leads to some damage.
>> And the third thing is via sentiment. Um
so if you can get into a situation where
you enter a downward spiral where these
things just feed off each other
>> um and then the economy goes into a
recession perhaps or goes into a deeper
downturn. But like I said, this is we're
still very early stages in this so far.
>> You you've also been talking about how
to position around the commodity sector
and one thing was it used to be just
overweight materials. Mhm.
>> But but is there kind of a wider sort of
trade now around this?
>> Yeah. So this is commodities is
something that we've liked for a while,
right? Like since the middle of last
year, we've been pushing commodity uh as
a interesting space to be in and that's
not just because sort of a fragmenting
world where you know macro traders will
tell you to buy guns and gold or like
banks and tanks, right? Uh all of that
leads to you to commodity exposure
within materials. U then you start to
think about okay everybody needs to have
their secure supply chain um and there
will be over inventory over hoarding
everyone will try to secure their own
supplies of variety of commodities
that's already happening so that drives
commodity price high then you got
anti-involution in China which is
basically pushing down on supply uh
which has historically at least in the
last 10 years been the biggest supply
provider um so you put all of these
things together and of course from a
financial perspective if bonds are no
longer diversifying your equity exposure
as equity bond correlations go positive
which they have
>> um then the only thing that works is
commodities. So all of these
perspectives gives you a long commodity
lens and we've expressed that via
various positions within Asian equities
and even global equities.
>> The that that seems more than tactical
at this point you know just the the the
the wishes to be more secure when it
comes to
>> I don't know commodity security. Uh
what's the specific play there though?
Uh do I just buy upstream names? Do I
buy infrastructure names?
>> I think I think all of those. So like
the picks and shovels work, the you know
the commodity producers work. Okay.
>> Uh and everything in the midstream
because once price hikes start to come
through, it will follow through into
midstream and chemicals will also
benefit from that over the long term,
right? Because these price increases
typically tend to cascade across the
entire supply chain. So if the the
initial benefits will be in the upstream
players but then that will kind of
cascade over. Keep in mind energy as a
sector used to be like 20% of EM back in
2007 when when I started. Uh now it's
like 3%.
>> Um so there has been a significant
change in the way that the market
processes things and how the economies
have evolved but there was a time when
energy used to be a very big sector. Uh
you mentioned EM you you're still seeing
this kind of wall liquidity for EM this
year. You still think that's that's
happening? Are we seeing any early signs
of that now?
>> Again, so like I said, there's a lot of
confusion and a lot of permutations
possible right now. So there is a
scenario where the global economy goes
into a recession, then there's no wall
of liquidity. There's a scenario where
our tactical dollar bullishness becomes
more permanent, then there's no wall of
liquidity. uh but to the extent that yes
global portfolios want to diversify out
of their very heavily concentrated
positions which have traditionally been
in tech and US um and into emerging
markets uh as earnings growth in E em
becomes better that's still out there
similarly for emerging market money for
household money in Asia in other
emerging markets u diversifying by
bringing it back into the local markets
it's a big thing in several markets in
in our part of the world.
>> So all of these things are still
happening. But yes,
>> in a recession, in a dollar strong
environment, the wall doesn't happen. It
becomes more of a trickle.
>> Yeah,
>> we have a flurry of central bank
decisions this week. I think it's G7
plus a few more. Um any risk to watch
out for there and as far as how they're
looking at what's going on, whether
there's some semi-permanence to
liquidity to your point, right?
>> Yes, that's exactly what we'll be
looking out for. So especially with the
FOMC, we'll see. Of course, this is uh
Chair Powell's final few FOMCs. So maybe
you cannot take a lot of signaling
information about future policy
direction from this. Uh but of course
the way that the committee thinks about
it will be important for investors to
follow uh in terms of how whether
they're looking through this as a
transitory I hate to use that word but
transitory bout of inflation or whether
they see this as uh you know causing
more lasting damage to inflation
expectations which have also started to
move. So uh that's a debate that we'll
be listening out more for. Secondly, uh
emerging market central bank Brazil um
it meets later this week.
>> Uh and we'll see whether they deliver
cuts uh because they're expected to. Um
and uh that'll give us some additional
insight on how emerging markets are
thinking about this whole episode.
>> Uh how do you look at China now? I mean
there's a growing narrative that they're
insulated from all the Iran situation.
Are Chinese assets more more attractive
to you now? Yeah, we've been looking at
China as having emerged from a 4-year
down cycle, right? Fundamental down
cycle from 2020 to 2024. And then we've
started to see that recovery and we have
more confidence that this recovery is
real. Uh just looking at what's
happening on the innovation side, what's
happening on the geopolitical side,
what's happening on the anti-involution
side, what's happening in terms of
policy support for consumption for
property. and you just saw the property
market data. Uh all of these are
pointing in a direction that's
fundamentally positive for the market.
Um a lot of the issues in China have
been that u many foreign investors have
become a little bit risk averse in China
because of the geopolitical issues and
we don't really need to see that money
coming into China just yet. I think the
first leg higher that's a bonus. Yeah.
Uh but the first leg higher in China
could be simply the domestic money
getting deployed into the market. uh we
started to see retail investors buying
equities from September last year and
there's a lot more of that to go in
households in China have been putting
increasingly more of their wealth into
deposit bank deposits in the last 3
years and if that even a small part of
that moves into the equity market that's
like $300 billion of inflows into
Chinese equities
>> Miko it's great to have you Miso Das
there Asia equity and quan strategist at
JP Morgan I just want to recap that you
know when it came to the data yes the
home price drop that we saw in China was
at a slower pace. That is certainly a
bright spot as Misa had mentioned. Then
there's a situation with the Dubai
International Airport where we have
heard the government that they have
temporarily suspended flights at the
international airport. According to the
government's media center, there has
been a fire impacting a fuel tank near
the international airport. So certainly
we're watching the airlines very
closely. They are getting a negative
reaction to all this. as well. Keep in
mind Dubai is one of the world's if not
the one of the world the world's uh
busiest sort of travel hubs as well. So
certainly uh temporarily even temporary
suspension could have massive massive
implications here. So certainly one to
watch. It is ongoing situation. We'll
give you an update once we hear more
about this drone incident near the Dubai
International Airport. This is
Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. So, South Korea
will use extra tax revenue to fund a
supplementary budget in a bid really to
cushion consumers and businesses from
rising oil prices because of what's h
happening uh in Iran and in the Middle
East. Its finance minister spoke with us
exclusively on Friday.
Right now, the Middle East situation is
overshadowing the global economy. The
government's top priority right now is
responding to the Middle East situation
in the short term while reducing Korea's
structural dependence on oil over the
medium to long term.
>> Which is why you just announced a fuel
price cap. Why this specific measure
instead of others more potentially
broadly or more targeted measures to
support the economy?
>> Currently, the imported oil is from
before the Middle East conflict. During
this twoe period, when imports have been
halted, it will come in at a higher
price. However, if the future imports
become even more expensive, the
government plans to raise the price
proposal accordingly to compensate. The
government plans to decide at that time
whether to reduce taxes again.
If you actually need to help the
refiners, does that mean that the
government will be using its own budget
in order to do that? And how are you
planning to pay for that cost?
>> Therefore, if refiners incur losses
during this process, the government
intends to compensate for those losses.
>> Would that come from the extra budget?
We also have plans to prepare an
additional supplementary budget if
necessary. And in fact, the government
has already begun working on this
internally.
Therefore, it's not just about
compensating for the proposed oil price
increase. The government has begun
preparing a supplementary budget to
support those suffering losses due to
rising oil prices. are freight
transporters, delivery service
providers, exporting SMMES, small and
medium-sized companies, the
self-employed, small business owners,
and young people.
There's so much skepticism right now
though in the markets. I mean, we have
seen the incredible rally of the Korean
stock market just to fall incredibly
earlier this month as well. Not to
mention the pressure on the Korean one.
What more can the government do?
The one's recent weakness is not due to
shortage of dollars. Korea holds over 1
trillion in combined dollar assets,
including roughly 500 billion at the
National Pension Service, more than 420
billion in state reserves and over 100
billion in private holdings. The recent
depreciation has largely reflected
Middle East related developments. While
last year's movements were influenced by
increasing outbound investments by
residents,
this year the current account surplus is
expected to improve further on the back
of the semiconductor boom. Secondly,
WGBI inclusion could bring additional
foreign inflows into the bond market and
the pension's new hedging framework
could enhance dollar stability.
The rally that we have seen recently,
has that reflected the economic
fundamentals of South Korea? How much is
it speculative herd behavior together
with FX together with the Korean stock
market? And is that a risk?
The stock market's recent drop of over
700 points following Middle East
tensions is seen as part of a
normalization process after strong
gains. It is not viewed as drastic
sell-off. We are closely monitoring
volatility in the foreign exchange and
bond markets and stand ready to take
policy measures if necessary to
stabilize conditions.
>> The uncertainty coming from the trade
environment again we're hearing from the
US trade representative 301 section uh
probes into alleged excess manufacturing
capacity. Um have you spoken to
Washington about that already?
Although we have not had recent
discussions with Washington, the US side
has reacted very positively to Korea's
passage yesterday of the special bill
related to US investment. The overall
response from Washington has been very
favorable. Now that the legislation has
passed, specific investment projects
will likely be determined through
working level consultations. The US has
shown strong interest in the energy
sector in particular and Korea believes
it has competitive strengths in that
area. We intend to pursue mutually
beneficial cooperation that will be good
for both Korea and the US.
>> When it comes to the Supreme Court
actually striking down many of President
Trump's tariffs for Korea and Korean
companies, is that an opportunity or
does just create more uncertainty around
trade?
Regarding tariffs, if the US Supreme
Court's decision invalidates the 15%
reciprocal tariff while maintaining 10%.
Korea, having already reached a 15%
agreement, does not expect higher rates
than previously agreed. On section 301,
actions affecting surplus countries,
including Korea and Japan, the
government will actively engage and
explain its position.
Right. Just a look at markets. A couple
of things. Right. So there's update
coming through out of the Dubai
International Airports and we're now at
about session highs. 104 uh on Brent
still above 100 I think is the key
takeaway there. Home prices came out out
of China 30 minutes back. The slowest
pace of declines going back to June.
That's helping things along. We'll show
you the CGB curve in a moment.
Steepening there. Property prices are
also doing quite well. In the next hour,
two things. It's the data dump and
Indonesia comes online following that
massive drop on Friday. All things are
just ahead. Lots more on the way here on
the China show.
Live pictures out of Beijing here this
morning. The state council information
office set to have its press briefing as
we await of course for this uh January
and February activity data out of China
here. In the meantime, we're seeing when
it comes to stocks are slightly on offer
here today. CSI 300 is lower by about
610 of 1%. There is a lot of headlines
here when it comes to the Iran
situation. No surprise. Uh you know,
first it was really the likes of this US
attack on this Iranian export hub. Then
you have this kind of more talk from
President Trump about you know reopening
the straight of Hormuz and trying to get
China and other nations to help out in
that regard. Um so certainly there's a
lot of that and then of course this
Dubai uh international airport
temporarily suspending flights there.
That certainly has again led people to a
bit more concern about what's really
going on on the ground
>> following that drone drone related
strike and of course a fire there. Okay,
we're now getting the numbers coming
through activity numbers. Okay, so we're
looking at retail sales 2.8%
above estimates industrial production
6.3%.
Uh estimates are for 5.3%. What else are
you seeing here? So it seems like it's a
beat across the board uh at first
glance, right? So industrial production
at 6.3, fixed asset investment actually
is in positive territory. We're talking
about 1.8% print.
>> Uh we were expecting a negative 5% print
or more.
>> Um and then property investment also is
better than expected. Still in
contraction, but we're talking about
11.1%
decline. Uh so it seems better than
expected. And this really kind of you
pair that with the the home price data
that we got just about 30 minutes ago
where the decline seem to have moderated
a bit. I think things are pointing at a
more positive direction here right now,
Dave.
>> Yeah, it's you're right. I mean, this is
an acrosstheboard
beat uh on I think I would even say all
with the exception I guess of the
jobless rate which actually ticked
higher to 5.3% from 5.1%.
uh but most activity numbers are
suggesting the there was a lot more
economic activity for the period between
uh Jan to Feb. And to Ivon's point if in
case you missed that home price numbers
for Feb which came out 30 minutes back
also coming in less bad than expected uh
the slowest pace of declines and new
home prices going back to about June of
last year.
>> Yeah let's get some more analysis now
and bring in Ning Jang senior China
economist at UBS investment bank. Seems
like pretty good set of numbers. What's
your take on them?
>> Uh, sure. Uh, there are three takeaways
from here. Number one, of course,
there's a better than expected activity
data in January, February across board.
Uh, number two, there's still notable
divergence between external demand from
exports versus kind of a still soft
domestic activities. Number three, we
need to double check the data very
carefully because there's notable
disruption from the Chinese UEI holiday
bas and even last year we have some
disruption factors as well.
>> Okay. Okay. So I I know you've only had
the benefit of hearing us give through
the headline numbers you know when you
look at what specific details are you
curious to see now now that you have a
headline number that suggest things are
better.
>> Yeah sure. Uh so basically we are seeing
uh two of reasons. the first one. So
whether this kind of a consumption uh
uptake in January, February can be
extended even further.
>> Okay.
>> Frankly speaking, uh over speaking,
China consumption should be still under
pressure. We are looking at some smaller
trading subsidies and no much increase
on the social spending and also the
house housing price was in fact still
active. So that's why we're still some
pressure over here. So that's good start
in this year in January February could
give us a little bit more confidence but
clearly we need more.
>> So that's first one. Second one is FI
data. Last year was almost a 4% decline
>> and this year we have a almost a 2%
increase. So that's a lot of questions
over there especially on the base effect
last year.
>> I see.
>> So so do you think there is enough
momentum in terms of the fixed asset
investment now that we've turned
positive? Is there sustainability in
these and what's driving it? Do you is
it is it mostly just as you say base
effects or is it could be more
>> so last year why we saw a notable
decline in second half last year three
things number one that's a kind of a
kitchen sink some some base was brought
down to uh ensure a decent growth in
this year in some local governments
number two here some projects are being
delayed to this year to enjoy the
freshed kind of a support from new
five-year plan
>> number three some funding gap was there
last year low government's uh tried to
pay uh earbs and uh uh debt using some
uh funding for projects. So clearly
maybe some kind of disruptions has been
normalized. So that's a good news for
the highland data. But clearly the
underground evidence maybe the change is
not that dramatic. We have some
disruption from the base effect and
statistics. M you you mentioned
something just now to you said more was
needed more economic support is needed
uh because the when you talk about the
consumer for example the you know one of
the early reads so they reduce the
amount of consumer subsidies right and I
think one of the first data points that
came out following that news was the
monthly car sales numbers and bit on the
softer side should we overthink that or
is there has there been an effect really
on consumer spending because of less
report.
>> Uh the bottom line here, January,
February, the radio sales is uh still
below 3%.
>> Okay,
>> last year was close to 4%. Which means
we're still seeing a deceleration of
consumption uh data in China in this
year. So, uh if you see the policy
design here, it takes some time, which
means even the government try to support
growth in the long run to push up the
share of consumption GDP notably, but
clearly in this year the initial boost
looks modest. Maybe we still need a
strong increase in the spending on
social safety net and also we need to
wait for the final stabilization of
housing prices plus the meaningful push
on income growth in China.
>> You mentioned about the stabilization of
the home price. Uh we're starting to see
the declines moderate.
Is do you think there's some signs of
some sort of bottom that's being formed
here?
uh for China as a whole on average maybe
we still need another couple cotters to
see the stabilization across different
tier cities but the good things in the
very beginning that's a divergence maybe
high tier cities like Shanghai maybe
Shenzhen and Beijing could enjoy the the
first sign of stabilization which could
be a lead indicator for the lower tier
cities so that's what's happening now as
you can see the secondary home sales in
Shanghai boomed in the past several
weeks Yeah, I was about to ask you, do
you think we're past we're way past the
worst in the first tier cities as a
leading indicator to the broader
economy?
>> Uh if say the second derivative per se,
yes, maybe we have already passed the
worst. But in terms of directional
speaking, we still need to be a little
bit more patient. You know, every time
we saw a boost on the home market
property, eating it has a honeymoon,
which means after honeymoon, what's
next? So that's a more important
question for everyone.
>> Um I'm sure you're getting a lot of
questions about the Iran conflict
depending on the duration depending on
intensity but could it do anything in
terms of impacting the global demand for
exports which China has benefited from?
>> Uh it depends the scenario we are
assuming now. Uh clearly the market has
not yet pressed in a prolonged shock
from the elevated oil price which means
everyone is looking at maybe for the
next couple weeks still in chaos and
elevated oil prices but after that maybe
got back to normal. So that's a scenario
we are assuming now. So if the oil
prices stayed elevated for months,
clearly that's a risk of some kind of a
small mini global recession scenario is
upcoming. That's will be negative news
for China. But for China per se, China
looks more resilient and made the global
oil shock because of the high oil
reserves because of the small dependency
on oil in the in the total energy
consumption and also China has a very
special scheme in managing the domestic
gasoline prices. How does that affect
PPI in China? This global rally in
commodity prices agnostic of why per
let's set aside why they're rallying.
Does that help China
>> for the hard PPI? That's for sure. We
already saw a meaningful uptake in the
past two months ahead of the before this
kind of glo oil shock. Uh PPI turned
less negative to negative 0.9%.
with the oil price uptake in March we we
can see PPI may turn positive year in
last two or three months so that's good
news for Talan reading but clearly
that's a another challenge for midstream
downstream uh sectors that's a increased
cost
>> right
>> that's a negative news for margin and
their profitability
>> it seems like an NPC they they they set
a pretty strong vow to to get inflation
back to 2% how do you think that China's
going to get there Uh unfortunately for
this year the CPI target of 2% is not a
binding one and our baseline still
assume a 0.6% CPI for this year.
>> Uh better than last year 0% but still
well below the 2% CPI target. That's
because we are strongly needing the
decent boost on consumption and also
kind of a uh income growth getting back.
But so far maybe uh that's still very
modest.
>> I wonder if you've seen the the
steepening in the CGB curve recently.
Why do you think well if you've seen it
why do you think we've seen a steepening
there
>> for the near-term one? Uh I mean the
short-term tenor uh there's still some
expectations for PBC cut interest rate.
>> Okay,
>> which will be directly linked with the
short-term tenor. But for the long-term
tener like 10 years 30 years inflation
expectations are coming back that will
pushing up some kind of a nominal a
nominal rating of the long-term end of
the rate. Uh that's why the uh CDB yield
curve getting staper. So that's what's
happening now.
>> Okay.
>> Um a couple weeks there's going to be a
meeting potentially between President
Trump and she obviously the Iran
situation is somehow being thrown into
it whether it happens or not. But what
are your base case assumptions? Should
we expect the truth that was set in in
South Korea last year just to be
maintained or do you think something
more could come through?
>> Uh there are two streams here. One is uh
the top kind of a uh talk in Paris now
uh between the holy and bassant. So
they're still on the ground work to
prepare for this upcoming potential
meeting uh of the uh Trump vote in
China. The other one for sure uh Trump
sent a message that uh the uh US needs
China help to get the homeress straight
uh back to normal. So that's a lever. Uh
I believe still uncertain whether Trump
could make the trip or not. We could see
uh very kind of a uh uh solid messages
in the next couple days hopefully. But
our baseline of course uh even there's a
a trip or not there's ongoing talks and
communications between the two sides and
uh the uh kind of a tension between
China US in the trade fronts are a
little bit decelerating at least for now
in the last several months. So US needs
China to buy their energy agriculture
goods and maybe airplanes. China need US
to uh reduce their tariff and maybe
relaxing some kind of restrictions on
tech.
>> Okay. And by most indications, those
things are still on track. Uh Ningjang,
thank you so much for for for coming
here and unpacking all of those
>> uh components for us there. Ning Jang,
senior China economist at UBS uh
investment bank. Okay. Uh a couple of
things across these markets. 11 minutes
into the Indonesia session. And you know
what? Uh why do we talk about Indonesia?
We'll talk about Brett in a moment
because Indonesia fell 3% on Friday and
it's now down a further 3% today. So,
this is a market that can't catch a
break. It's underperforming
uh and which is a fairly tall order
given most things are actually falling
right now. We'll dig into what else is
happening in this market, but yes, make
no doubt this is a market we're focusing
on as well. Um, we're looking as well at
uh Brent, can we get that back to just
in terms of the updates coming through?
But we are entering the third week.
There updates coming through, of course,
out of Dubai. Um, and we are, as you can
see, on a two-day look off highs that we
hit in the early goings uh of the Monday
session. We were at about 106. We're
calling 104 right now as far as that's
concerned. Gold is actually also playing
out not uh we're below 5,000 there. And
miners are actually taking quite a bit
of a hit when you look at some of these
gold mining stocks across the region.
>> Yeah, they are not they're still not
behaving like they should be behaving.
gold is um but you know it it could be
just a positioning thing as most
strategists in the sell side tells us
here but there you go gold miners are
all falling quite substantially here
diging mining is down some 4% but yeah
getting much closer to that 5,000 level
for gold once again for subscribers you
can also turn to your terminal for more
on the Iran war and of course that eco
data coming through from China t is your
function for the latest updates plus
commentary analysis from our expert
editors
Right. Welcome back. Uh Matt, go on your
Bloomberg terminal. 30-day look. Um
vessels of course on your screens in
blue. This is the straight of Ormuz uh
Persian Gulf, Oman Gulf. a major
exporting hub of course in Iran which
was attacked on the weekend and some
reporting today that from Oxios that the
US president is weighing a seizure of uh
some other assets in that part of the
world. Uh we're also getting some lines
coming through out of Dubai and the
international airport there being
temporarily suspended about 30 minutes
back. And we're also trying to figure
out really what tanker traffic is really
like given a lot of reports. Right. If
you're Chinese or Russian linked, you
have free passage. Everything but
American and Israeli also get free
passage. Uh on the Bloomberg terminal,
you do have some data on this. It's
we're looking at 24-hour rolling data
every 30 minutes. So suffice to say if
there's something there that is visible
that is moving then this might be able
to capture that. It's also worth
pointing out though that some of the
tankers uh in that part of the world
have maybe turned off some of their
signaling mechanisms in order to of
course avoid there's a lot of jamming
that's taking place across GPS too. So
that's also affecting the ability of
folks to figure out really where things
are in real time. But based on our
understanding it's effectively at about
near zero as far as tanker traffic is
concerned. Whether that's the orange
line is birectional, east to west is in
blue, west to east is in yellow. But
again, suffice to say the headline here
Ivonne tells you everything to know and
you are getting a lot more efforts of
course on many sides to open up traffic
there in that part of the world
>> and it's interesting if you read more
from this axio report of what President
Trump wants to do uh when it comes to
that export hub of Iran which it did
attack. So apart from just asking for a
coalition of countries to reopen the
straight of Hormuz, he al is also
weighing a seizure of the critical oil
depot on Carg Island. This would be a
move that would require US boots on the
ground according to Axios here and if
tankers remain bottled up in the Persian
Gulf. So that's the latest on that
front. Of course we have to take a look
at when it comes to the impact on China,
right? and and most of the economists
and you know China watchers that we
talked to have talked about you know
China's efforts to build out its energy
sources is actually getting fresh
momentum from this conflict in the
Middle East and Beijing is one of the
largest global investors in power grids
and China was the fastest growing LG
market before Russia's invasion of
Ukraine in 2020 triggered a surge in
spot prices but Bloomberg opinion
columnist David Fickling says there's a
lesson to be learned in Beijing's dash
for gas. He joins us now together with
our reporter Dad Merrtto to talk us
through this complex issue right now. Um
David, let me start with you. Underscore
the the premise here for us.
>> Yeah, I I think this is looking at um I
was looking at a very specific case
really, which is um um you know, some of
the things that have caused these blue
skies uh around Beijing in recent years.
You you remember like 10 years ago uh
there was a lot of uh a lot of air
pollution um in northern China,
especially in winter. Um, one of the
things that's really changed that is
that um, since about 2017, there's been
uh, a lot of push for uh, people in
rural areas to stop burning uh, coal in
domestic furnaces to uh, to warm
themselves in winter. Um, and that's
pushed people in several directions. One
has been to uh, electric heaters and
some to heat pumps, but a lot of them
have also been pushed uh to uh to gas
boilers. Um, and that's actually caused
real problems uh, just in this past
winter. Uh we saw quite a lot of reports
um uh in in January uh with some of
these rural families. Um the uh they
were initially subsidized to uh to
install gas boilers. They were
subsidized for the price of the gas. Uh
and those subsidies have gradually been
removed because of course a lot of local
governments in China uh you know are
facing a lot of fiscal pressure. Um and
that's left um you know some of these
quite shocking reports out of you know
China of 2026 where you've got poor
rural families who can't afford to heat
their houses who are uh you know people
who are having to sort of stand outside
in the midday sun to get a little bit of
warmth uh and are just like having to
rug up inside with extra layers of
clothing. Um now I think that was a real
uh real mistake because the the costs of
uh heat pumps uh essentially in a
reverse cycle air conditioners are not
that much greater for inland of these
areas about 20%. Um and really um a lot
of people talk about gas as this sort of
bridge uh to electrification. Um I I
think we saw in that hub uh winter gas
crisis some of the problems for that and
of course we're seeing spilling out of
uh the crisis in the Middle East some of
the problems for that much more broadly
in the world.
>> Yeah, David, you certainly have
highlighted some of the challenges in
this whole transition. Dan, maybe you
can step in and talk about how you know
what is being done now, right? this push
to expand China's energy infrastructure
and when it comes to capacity and the
power grid what efforts are being done
now
>> yeah you know David's exactly right like
I think China has sort of realized uh
that it was too reliant you know it it
requires about 50% of its gas coming
from overseas markets about 70% of its
oil coming from overseas markets so it's
really exposed to to any girrations in
global prices um and now it looks at
electricity which is mostly coming from
domestic sources coal coal uh nuclear,
wind, solar, hydropower, all of which
are, you know, produced in China. And so
it has a lot more control over the the
prices and supply there. And so it's
been shifting its economy over the last
couple decades uh toward more and more
electricity. Uh mostly you see that in
EVs. Um but you know, you can see it out
in the countryside with these huge uh
wind and solar farms. Uh and that's all
that is doing is requiring a much
stronger grid buildout. And so you have
these companies like State Grid and
Southern Grid uh that are backed by the
government and are uh spending records
amounts and selling bonds for 700 plus
billion yuan last year to to raise the
money to build the power lines and the
batteries that are needed to to keep
pace with all this new electricity
demand that's here in China.
>> Yeah. So Dan, just a follow up on that.
So you talked about financing. So
clearly some of the S so have been
tapping the markets whether that's the
banks or the debt markets. There's a lot
of money that's pushing through into
that. Talk to us though about the
challenges that remain despite all that
money being in place. Really?
>> Yeah. I mean, the big challenge is is
not building the infrastructure, right?
China's uh got incredible power
construction companies. So, the the
long-distance power lines, the battery
storage plants, like they can build
those things at scale. The challenge in
China is really more about under uh the
underlying market that uh that dictates
how electrons are moved, where they go
from uh how flexible the the supply can
be with all these new sources of wind
and solar that you know can be kind of
anywhere geographically but only on at
certain amounts of time. And so the real
challenge is going to be over the next
couple of years to see if China's
leaders can can kind of slowly reform
their market to create a more flexible
system uh without kind of uh reducing
any of the energy security promises
they've made to their industries and
people.
>> And David, you you talked about the
challenges. Do you get a sense that
there's policymakers are trying to fix
this anyway? And and what's sort of the
lesson to the rest of the world right
now uh when it comes to trying to
transition and make this big transition?
>> Yeah. I mean I think we I mean Dan and I
worked on a story a couple of years ago
about the big solar manufacturer Tongwe
that their um their founder I remember
um at the two sessions last year was
talking about well you know if we keep
on this electrification process we can
stop oil imports uh within I think two
decades which obviously quite a long
time there two decades of oil imports
but for a country the size of China an
oil import the size of China um that
that's the sort of scale of ambition
that's uh that's being talked about um
uh and certainly for China's export
industries as well. Um, a lot of them
you're seeing a lot of like EVs and
solar panels going to um emerging
markets that are still very dependent on
uh on fossil fuel imports. And uh we're
going to see in South South Asia,
Southeast Asia a lot of exposure to the
effects of uh of the crisis we're seeing
in the Middle East and and China's
standing there with the products uh the
sort of alternative products to uh to
fix that problem.
>> David, Dan, thank you so much. Uh great
discussion there. That was Dan Merrt and
our opinion columnist David Fickling
there talking really about uh this dash
for gas in the face of this Iran
conflict and what really the world can
learn from China. And later on on
Bloomer TV, we'll be speaking with the
Cambodian Minister of Mines and Energy.
He'll be joining us exclusively later to
explain how the country is working to
cushion the impact of the Iran war
that's happening at the times. On your
screen, this is Bloomberg.
Right. An update of the energy complex
uh in the in the energy space mixed
index of course is traded in Japan. You
have Woodside which is uh in Oz and a
few other players of course Petro China
mixed bag there 1.2% 2%. We're still
above 10. A 100 bucks really is what
matters there for markets on Brent uh
auto stops.
>> Yeah, it seems like when it came to the
Brent price, we we popped up a little
bit higher after that Dubai incident and
they basically temporarily shut the
international airport there due to a
drone incident that caused a fire uh and
a fuel tank nearby. So that is the
latest when it comes to situation uh in
the city here. But when we take a look
when it comes to auto stocks, yes,
that's where it's really getting hit as
well. Just given the fuel impact, given
the oil impact, there you go. Hyundai
Motor, they're down some 3% uh this
morning. Isuzu also down some 4%. We'll
have plenty more coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading to that lunch break in just
a moment. Um yeah, we could be needing a
bit of a breather here. We seeing our
stocks are declining some more than 1%
in in in the Nikay as well as in the
topics here today. We talked about the
auto sector that certainly has been
feeling it. Dollar yen, we're getting
back to those 160 levels uh right now.
So certainly one thing to watch as well.
GGB yields are just one basis point
lower.
>> Yeah. And you got to wonder, right? So
the last time we talked about 160 was
intervention risk, but you got to wonder
this time around the dynamics are very
different from that point in time. It's
not about yen weakness. It's dollar
strength across the board. You wonder
whether this is something that
authorities will look through, can look
through. Um although that is of course
inflationary which then goes into this
massive central bank week we'll have in
a moment here. Uh the rest of the region
though is
I would like to say doing and holding up
okay. I'd be lying to you though if I
did that. Uh we're down about half of
1%. Most of the pain points though I
think are fairly expected and
straightforward. Um you obviously have
the energy related sectors like autos,
shipping, airlines obviously are taking
a a bit of a hit today. Uh you're also
getting though Indonesia which is also
acting up quite a bit. We're down about
2%. The underperforming market across
the Asia Pacific. It's also worth
pointing out though uh that the Chinese
data that's come through in the last
hour whether that's home prices or
activity numbers have just about beat
across the board. So better than
expected almost across the board. I say
almost because this the jobless rate
actually ticked up to 5.3%. But that's
not necessarily a bad thing too because
you might also get to me might also have
the labor force implications of it. But
anyway, uh economic numbers have been
decent. The geopolitical backdrop though
has been complex and difficult and
that's really offset most of the good
stuff we've seen from the actual
economic numbers.
>> Yeah. And of course this data came
before this whole Iran conflict, right?
So that certainly is still uh a bit
dated, but certainly there's going to be
a lot of commentary uh that's happening
in this uh Beijing press or here right
now. We'll see if they talk anything
about the Iran impact potentially when
it comes to of course global demand for
exports u and this export machine that
China has really been able to uh you
know undergo to really offset what's
happened domestically whether that sort
of continues here in 2026. Um, in terms
of the central bank decisions to tell
you about, that certainly is the big
thing to watch, right? When you talk
about the Fed, the BOJ, BOE, ECB, I
mean, it's it's all the major central
banks that are going to, I'm sure, be
asked to address the situation when it
comes to the oil price shock. And what
does this mean for the whole reaction
function of central banks? Now,
>> it will be the first direct
message we're getting from the major
central banks, how they're looking at
this spike.
>> Yes. and whether they can look through
or whether they'll need to be reactive.
In fact, the very first I would say to
even likely move is going to be the RBA
which is tomorrow. And that's that's a
coin to us, right? And don't be
surprised if this time tomorrow we'll be
looking at a rate hike coming through
out of the RBA. The rest of the region
though, as you can see, will behold, but
they'll it's really what they say and
how they say it.
>> Yeah. You know, for now, it seems to be
the market is more worried about the
inflation impact. I think how much
further do we have to start thinking
about the growth impact
>> if this situation prolongs. So certainly
there's a lot of things uh makes it much
more complex for these um central
bankers here to kind of deal with not
just the oil price shock but also the
stackflation sort of concerns that are
somewhat weighing on this these markets
here right now. Uh let's get the
situation when it comes to Dubai now.
Now authorities have suspended flights
at the Dubai International Airport. This
is hours after a drone strike targeted
facilities near the airfield. Now, let's
get the latest now from our Bloomberg
Middle East anchor Jamanna Buseti. She
joins us from Dubai. Jamanna, what do we
know at this point? What's the latest?
>> Yeah, well, the latest actually is we
just got a message uh put up on X by the
Dubai media office and they have said
that civil defense teams have
successfully contained the fire
resulting from an impact to one of the
fuel tanks in the vicinity of the city's
international airport. They go on to add
that there have been no im injuries
caused uh limited damage on the back of
it. But of course earlier on the Dubai
Civil Aviation Authority said that they
were temporarily suspending some flights
and indeed uh if you look at Emirates
for example they have put up a post
advising anyone who was coming to the
airport to no longer come to the airport
until it is safe to do so. Precautionary
measure of course. Um what I will say is
that this is the first attack on the
airport in about a week. Um it's been a
few days now where uh re we've seen a
resumed level of activity especially
from some of the local carriers.
Emirates uh had been operating with a a
lot more capacity in the last couple of
days. Uh and flights were sort of
returning back to normal. Uh but of
course this sets things back aside back
to where we were. Uh temporary
suspension. Um, but what I will say is
that yesterday the UAE announced that
they have received over 1,600 drones
directed from Iran. Most of them
successfully intercepted around 300
missiles also interception rate very
high there above 90 92%. Uh, but the
point is it is day 17 of this war. The
projectiles keep coming and if anything
what Iran are doing now is they seem to
be targeting very strategic locations
once again. And in this case, they
appear to have targeted a fuel depot by
the Dubai International Airport. And of
course, lots of retaliatory talk over
the weekend from many of these senior
Iranian leaders suggesting that the uh
attack, the US attack on Kar Island
could have broader ramifications for the
Gulf States, warning that any place that
is harboring US assets uh even US
nationals in around the ports around
some of those strategic locations could
be fair targets. So here we are. Um this
is just one manifestation of that. for
now. The uh Dubai media office saying
that the fire is contained. No injuries
have been caused.
>> Joanna, what do we know about the I mean
a few hours ago uh talk around the US
presidents, the White House asking other
countries to do some heavy lifting to
participate in being able to secure the
street of Hormuz. What do we know about
that?
>> Yeah. Well, you have to distinguish
between what the US are doing militarily
in Iran and versus their actions to try
to reopen the straits by force. And
clearly, they're considering a number of
options here. Remember a few days ago,
they talked about the possibility of
introducing naval escorts uh and those
lower insurance premia for vessels that
wanted to take through to pass through.
Now they're leaning on a different
strategy which is to help build up this
coalition of different countries to help
ensure the safe passage of of vessels
through the straits. And their thinking
there is predominantly it's Asian
countries that are benefiting from the
transit of oil that is going through the
straits. I mean China the biggest buyer
buyer by far of uh Iranian oil. Around
90% of Iranian oil does get directed to
China. about 13% of China's overall oil
imports come from Iran as well. Around
50% of the seaborn oil that goes through
the strait goes to China. So China key
player here. Uh Trump's calculus is that
if they want to continue getting that
oil, then they also need to participate
in ensuring the safety of the strait.
Now uh one thing that he's also dangled
is a potential delay of that meeting,
the Trumpi meeting later on this month,
as I'm sure you guys are very well
aware. Uh he's also signaled the same
with other NATO members. He's uh encou
encouraging UK, France to get involved
as well. Um otherwise warning that they
could pay diplomatic price. In an FD
interview he said that overnight too. So
a mixture of uh a desire to build a
coalition but also his typical
diplomatic wrangling. What I will say
from the Iranian perspective is there
are hints that they are willing
themselves to cut deals with certain
countries and indeed there were reports
over the weekend that they managed to
cut a deal with India to secure the safe
passage of a couple couple of vessels
there. India also a key buyer of Iranian
oil. So maybe that is the template that
the Iranians are looking for in the
future where they can cut these side
deals with their biggest buyers. Um, but
of course the Trump administration is
pushing for a more global solution now
to the straight of Hormos.
I mean, we we won't need a global
solution if the deal that we could talk
about would be a deal that brings Iran
and the US back to the table. How far do
you think we are from that point in
time, Joanna?
>> So, President Trump customary, very,
very busy over the weekend giving
interviews. He did give an interview to
NBC over Saturday night and he suggested
that he's willing to make a deal with
the Iranians, but they're not where he
wants them to be. And then when he was
pressed for more information on exactly
what he was looking for out of them, he
didn't give a lot more color. But he did
say, and this is something that the US
have maintained since the beginning of
this war, even before the war, that Iran
can never have the ability to possess a
nuclear weapon. Now, on the other side,
the Iranians continue to be defiant. If
you look at the language coming through
from the foreign minister, from uh the
supreme uh council chief uh the security
council chief Ali Larani, they say that
they are going to continue to fight back
so long as US and uh Israeli joint
operations continue. But one thing that
they have said is they would return back
to the negotiating table if they can get
guarantees that a strike like this would
never happen again. They do not want to
be attacked again. And even though the
US and Israeli operations have been
militarily very successful from the
Iranians perspective, so long as the
regime is still intact, as long as it
comes out the other side still existing,
then that is a win for them. And their
judgment is that they will continue to
inflict as much economic cost on the
region and on the globe to ensure that
this these types of strikes don't happen
again. It's a it's a form of deterrence.
Uh and at this point there's no real
signs that they're ready to come to the
negotiating table because they realize
how much leverage they have on that
specific straight of Hormos check choke
point and on the ability to level damage
on the Gulf States even with these lower
costing drones which they can they're
sitting on reportedly a stockpile of
50,000 of um but can still cause a
significant amount of damage and
disruption as we saw for example this
morning with Dubai airport they targeted
a fuel deploy which caused a temporary
suspension of some flights.
>> Yeah, as you point out right back to the
first point you made back to the first
one in in a week. Uh Jamanna, thank you.
Uh we'll we'll we'll let you go. Of
course, you have a busy show ahead.
Jamanna Versace there. Horizons Middle
East and Africa uh anchor in in Dubai
for us. Back to the other story we're
tracking and this actually has to do
with the Chinese briefing that's taking
place, but it relates to the Iran story.
Um and officials are saying that they
are closely watching the risks from the
energy price spike despite a solid
supply base meaning supplies are not so
much an issue but obviously the pass
through and as far as global prices are
concerned is something that they are
tracking very closely. They're also
looking at again robust energy buffers
in the event we do get these price
swings and of course supply that is
really really hard to come back.
>> Yeah. You talk about when it came to the
overall data, right, which was better
than expected on multiple fronts. Uh
apart from the unemployment, sort of the
employment numbers, I think everything
else was a beat. Um you know, they're
talking about when it comes to what we
saw in January and Feb, it does set a
solid foundation for achieving that
fullear target for 2026. As you know, it
has been a softened target of four and a
half to 5%, but yes, they seem to have
showing some confidence that, you know,
this is starting to be the early signs
of them being able to achieve that new
target. Um also when it comes to the
chip price increase uh he says that also
indicates domestic computing demand. So
still talking about the innovation all
that kind of sort of thing is really
kind of helping uh when it comes to how
demand and what that picture looks like
right now.
>> Yeah there we go. Um lots of they're
touching on many many aspects here as
pertains to the briefing. Uh we'll have
more as we get more details coming
through out of the briefing in Beijing.
Uh for our subscribers
uh that want to get up to speed on both
things. Well, on Iran, specifically
TLIV, we go on your Bloomberg terminal.
We'll bring you all the latest
developments of the various reports and
what we're seeing across these markets
in reaction or the absence of a reaction
to those reports coming through. Lots
more ahead. This is the China Show.
Yep. It's a busy week for markets when
it comes to central bank meetings. Also
when it comes to earnings coming up here
as well to watch this week. So yes, the
tech plays certainly is one thing to
watch. Tencent, Alibaba, uh the EVs as
well like Xpang, you got J Leap Motor,
that's all happening there. And of
course in the mix of that you got
Foxcon, you got Hanhai and the like. So
certainly it's a busy busy week on tap.
Costco shipping might be quite telling
just what they're going to say about the
whole impact from this Iran war. Uh
let's start with some of the big two big
ones here that we're watching very
closely. Right. When it comes to Hanhai,
the Taiwanese tech giant also due to
report later today. For more, let's
bring in our Asia tech correspondent,
Animal Jewelers. Uh, Belle, what are we
expecting?
>> We're expecting strong results. I think
I know I say this, actually, I say this
every month, I think, but it is the
quirk of the Taiwanese stock exchange
that the companies that are listed there
do need to report their monthly sales
figures. So, at this point, we already
have a very good indication going into
the figures, but the expectation is that
we're going to see uh strong results,
essentially a 22% increase in quarterly
sales. So that does really speak to the
server side of the business because of
course Honghai is a company. Yes, it's
known as the world's largest assembler
of Apple iPhones, but actually as well
it's a major partner of Nvidia now, a
major server assembly partner. So it's
really benefiting from all of that capex
spending uh we're seeing from the
hyperscalers like Microsoft and Alphabet
and Amazon and Meta in the US and of
course those plans continue into this
year. But but we are looking at sales
overall o of NT $2.6 trillion. That's
82.6 billion in the quarter ending
December and that would be ahead of
analyst expectations.
>> I mean yeah they do give regular
guidance on the top line. What they
don't give though is a breakdown. So
things like the device assembly unit.
How is that for example going to do this
though?
>> Yeah. Well that actually is expected to
do well cuz because going into the the
fourth quarter of course there was the
release of the latest iPhone lineup and
and there was a strong reception to that
uh both in the US but in Apple's other
critical major market and that's China
of course. So that is going to be a boon
for the business. The question could
also be around the currency impact
because we saw that general
strengthening trend of the Taiwanese
dollar into end of last year. Of course
it helped the GDP but it could actually
end up being a headwind to companies uh
like Honai. The other question of course
around the computer uh or the PC
assembly side and and that actually
could end up declining a tough uh
comparison base for that segment of the
business. So yeah, a lot to watch in
these numbers and I think as well just
given that guidance we get on the
outlook and what the company indicates
given we've already had monthly sales
figures to start 2026 and those as well
continuing to look strong.
>> All right, Belle, thank you. Annabelle
Jewelers there with the latest on what
to expect when it comes to Hanigh.
Shifting gears now, let's talk about
Leap Motor. That's also set to report
earnings later on. Uh Bloomberg
Intelligence has been crunching the
numbers as well. They're expecting the
automaker to unveil its first annual
profit. Let's get to our China
automotive reporter, Linda Louu. she
joins us now. Uh so first annual profit,
what what's been driving that do you
think?
>> A big driving factor is that they've
done really well in sales. Uh looking in
2025, they've managed to double their
sales growing over 100%. So that's a
momentum that's really lifted their
revenues uh not to mention their
profits. Uh obviously the pressure is
going to continue on margins given that
the price war in China is still raging.
Although demand for EVs uh may be on the
rise this year given we're seeing
surging oil prices. So a lot of um a lot
of things I think Lee motor can expect
coming into this year.
>> Are we expecting excuse me any guidance
on pricing to the point you're making on
these price wars?
>> I think that's going to be a tough one.
Uh the automakers are balancing all of
these kind of uh pressures uh within the
China domestic market. uh competition is
still fierce and the government has
actually started scaling back uh
subsidies for EV purchases. So there
could be flagging demand but then on the
upside growth into international markets
is gaining momentum especially leap
motors trying to leverage its
partnership with Stalantis and like we
said the situation with Iran could be a
factor that helps to drive demand for
EVs globally. All right, Linda, thank
you. Linda Lou there, our China
automotive reporter on what to expect uh
for Elite Motor when they report later
on today. Uh and yeah, we got a big
interview coming up, too.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. I'm just finding out
about this. In fact, I'm kidding. This
time tomorrow. There we go. The Leap
Motor co-president will be joining us on
the China. You can catch that exclusive
conversation coming up on the times on
your screens. Check that out. Well,
tomorrow's been
Check out some big headlines here. We're
following for you. We're watching
aluminum prices after aluminum Bahrain
started a phase production shutdown at
the world's largest single sight smelter
of the metal. It's a bid to preserve its
inventory of raw materials and keep
other parts of the plant operating. Now,
Alba's move comes as the industry faces
a spike in prices and traders brace for
widespread supply blockages. In
Indonesia, President Pabo Subanto says
he would only consider temporarily
exceeding Indonesia's statutory budget
deficit cap for emergency situations.
Speaking exclusively with Bloomberg, he
says that could only happen if oil
prices stay elevated for a sustained
period. Paboa also underscored his
commitment to fiscal discipline and says
Indonesia must live within its means.
Australia says one more member of the
Iranian women's soccer team granted
asylum by Cambra has decided to return
to Iran. It means five out of the
original seven who have been given
refuge will now return. Now, last week,
Australia granted asylum to six players
and a support worker after concerns of
persecution when Iranian state media
described the team as traitors.
>> Okay. Um All right. So, how is South
Korea dealing with this energy crisis?
uh what well they plan to do is they'll
be using extra tax revenue to then fund
all the support measures coming through
in a bid really to just cushion the blow
to consumers and businesses from
obviously rising energy prices globally
triggered by uh the the war in the
Middle East. Um its finance minister in
fact on Friday spoke with us
exclusively. Have a look.
global.
>> Right now, the Middle East situation is
overshadowing the global economy. The
government's top priority right now is
responding to the Middle East situation
in the short term while reducing Korea's
structural dependence on oil over the
medium to long term,
>> which is why you just announced a fuel
price cap. Why this specific measure
instead of others more potentially
broadly or more targeted measures to
support the economy?
Currently, the imported oil is from
before the Middle East conflict. During
this twoe period, when imports have been
halted, it will come in at a higher
price. However, if the future imports
become even more expensive, the
government plans to raise the price
proposal accordingly to compensate. The
government plans to decide at that time
whether to reduce taxes again.
If you actually need to help the
refiners, does that mean that the
government will be using its own budget
in order to do that? And how are you
planning to pay for that cost?
>> Therefore, if refiners incur losses
during this process, the government
intends to compensate for those losses.
>> That was South Korean Finance Minister
Kuyon Cho there speaking exclusively to
Sherry. We'll have more from that
conversation later on, of course, in the
next hour.
>> Yep. Uh before we wrap the show up
today, just look at brand prices, crude
prices, generally speaking, and of
course there's the uh aluminum element
as well to track here. Uh gains across
most. Gold of course is going the
opposite way still was below 5,000. You
are still getting pressure across the
gold complex in the equity markets
today. Uh Chinese consumer stocks are
actually doing quite holding up quite
resiliently. um everything from Maai of
course which is the massive name
consumer staple name uh on the CSI300
you know and on shore uh retail sales to
pricing to the upside the overlay as
well from the property side of things is
a property market which is not which is
falling by the slowest pace going back
to June so just that mental gymnastics
things are basically better than
expected as it pertains to the property
market and most metrics that have come
through in the last hour
>> yeah economics has come out with their
sort of initial reaction to all this
right now. So, um they said really it's
a good set of numbers, but it was kind
of a low bar that the data did clear at
this moment. They still think the
economy is stuck in a sort of slow
growth uh in a stark reality that you
know we're still trapped in this slow
growth equilibrium according to their
their assessment of it right now. So, um
but right now the market is taking it in
stride and saying look this is at least
some good news uh in the face of all
this volatility and bad news that we're
seeing around the world right now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It really is. And I think
the rates market also suggesting that
steepen nearing the curve. UBS joined us
and they did also observe this uh so
somewhat slight repricing of inflation
expectations in China. Uh going into the
last hour of the morning session here in
Hong Kong we are let's call it flat
after opening lower session highs and
then let's call it even here. Splitting
the difference between the two. MCI Asia
Pacific going into couple of market
opens. You have Thailand and you have
India. Bottom of your screens are
futures. We're down 6/10 of 1% weakness
coming through the equity complex this
Monday. Lots more ahead though. This is
the China show.